Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad have
responded to a us back proposal for
ceasefire in Gaza US Secretary of State
Anthony blink's IND DOA to discuss the
response with katerie
mediators a senior political anal he's
joining us by Skype uh from Paris as AMA
was just explaining there uh we don't
have a lot of details about what's uh at
the center of these uh proposals Hamas
has made its response essentially
restating a position that it's held
right from the start we seem to have a
lack of enthusiasm within uh Israel as
well the only people that seem to be
really pushing this are the US are we
any closer to where we are say several
months ago with regard to these
negotiations well Rob the US is pushing
its own proposal it's not pushing for an
immediate and permanent
ceasefire the US is pushing its own
proposal which has been contrary to what
the International Community wanted for 8
months but was forced to accept the
American dictates because otherwise the
war would have continued to grind on and
kill hundreds of Palestinians every week
if not every day so the US is basically
pushing its own PX Americana and that's
normal that's what America does America
advances its interest and this proposal
is in the interest of the United States
is the interest of the Biden admin
Administration in an election year and
it's pushing it because as you said and
I I won't say reluctant I think the
Israelis want war they've been saying it
nonstop I'm not sure why the rest of us
can't understand what the Israeli
government wants the Israeli government
wants War it wants to destroy Hamas I'm
not sure what I mean the Americans give
it excuses I don't think the rest of us
need to give the Israelis excuses the
Israeli government want to continue the
war and Destroy Hamas period
new paragraph right now the Americans
try to say look let's get some of the
hostages out over 6 weeks and then we
will see and why do I say we will see
and why Hamas continues to hammer on
this point and why the Palestinians are
worried about this point which is called
moving from phase one to phase two this
is the most important part and the
biggest problem with this American
proposal come un Security Council
resolution
735 and that's anything that will happen
in Phase 2 including Israeli withdrawal
from Gaza will only
happen upon agreement of the parties
upon agreement of the parties which
means in simple English Israel has a
veto over phase two which means we could
end up just with phase one because if
Israel doesn't like what Hamas is doing
towards phase two Israel will can
continue with the war and that's why
yesterday Israeli High officials told
Reuters that this proposal this
resolution will allow Israel or could
allow Israel to achieve its War
objectives part of the problem is if I
understand it correctly Maran is that we
are back to talking about something that
we were really talking about several
months ago as well which is the vager of
what those objectives actually are we
still don't know what Israel would would
consider as being a in quotes Victory
the the the thing that they would be
able to say right that's it we're done
we have eradicated Hamas and whilst one
would imagine that remains vague that
allows an awful lot of maneuverability
for Israel in terms of how it deals with
these
negotiations look I certainly agree with
you on that uh and I think within Israel
itself there is a b of a Nuance about
what victory means and by the way for
all practical purpose uh General Gant
and general Eisen card left the the
government or the war cabinet because
they did not agree on the end game right
what constitutes an Israeli Victory they
did not agree with Netanyahu on that I
think the United States and Israel and
the Netanyahu government don't agree
about what the end game is what
constitutes an Israeli Victory or at
least how to achieve it for example for
the Americans let's wind down the war we
can achieve our objective Israeli
American objective of finishing off
Hamas and taking control of Gaza away
from Hamas without necessarily killing
30,000 more Palestinians that's what the
Americans think they continue to agree
with the Israelis that Hamas can no
longer control Gaza they could they
agree with the Israelis that if possible
Gaza must be demilitarized
they agree with the Israelis that Israel
is defending its own security and will
continue to defend its own Security in
Gaza not that Israel is defending its
occupation and its racist system while
part from The River To The Sea no the
Americans and the Israelis could think
and argue that Israel is merely
defending itself in Gaza and the
Westbank and is Jerusalem not that it's
defending its occupation and there's a
huge
between the two now the Israelis at this
point in time this very narrow
government or security cabinet that
includes the likes of the radical
Fanatics uh B and SMR as well as some
real fascists from the leud party and
Netanyahu The Godfather of all this want
to defeat Hamas want the end of Hamas in
Gaza like they Tred to achieve the end
of Hamas in the West Bank they want to
make sure that they all end up either
dead or in jail or outside Gaza and they
don't want any trace of Hamas in Gaza
and they would like to take control of a
of a security uh zone or Corridor of a
mile long throughout from the north to
the South if possible for years to come
they would like that they would like to
maintain control over all Crossings and
borders that Gaza has with the rest of
the world just as they do in the West
Bank so they want to maintain basically
overall control of Gaza without Hamas
they will control they will consider
that achieving the war objectives and
one of the things that that I in find
interesting about all of this that Hamas
is focusing on or appears to be focusing
on with regard to the ceasefire the
immediate problem of stopping the war
within Gaza but what it does not do is
ultimately lead to what it had
originally hoped for for Palestinians
which was something akin to a two-state
solution talk to us about what you think
hamas's thinking is at the moment with
regard to the priorities that it
has well certainly uh there has been a
Devolution in the Palestinian cause in
the Homeland uh for the past 30 years we
have gone from the idea of a two-state
solution to the idea of a limited
autonomy around ramala in the west bank
and then we ended up with a split
between Gaza and the West Bank and of
course Jerusalem was annexed by the
Israelis and blessed by the United
States including unfortunately by this
Administration the Democratic
Administration not just by the Trump
Administration and now what the
Palestinians are doing is no more than
defending themselves believe it or not
neither Hamas nor the fat nor the
nor the Palestinian Authority nor any
Palestinian party at this point in time
is doing anything to liberate Palestine
or to free Palestine from the Israeli
occupation what they've been doing now
at least since 2002 is merely defending
themselves in Gaza and in ramala in the
West Bank the Palestinians have been in
a mod of self-defense now for over two
decades the idea that they would
struggle and towards the freedom of the
rest of the Homeland I think that has
not been in the books for at least at
least two decades because they have been
busy defending themselves Israel has
been busy maintaining its occupation and
they have been busy defending themselves
we have gone through as you remember Rob
and you and I have spoke about this over
the years Israel has launched four Wars
in on Gaza Hamas and Jihad and other
groups within Gaza have been in a mode
of self-defense basically one war after
another trying to reconstruct whatever
Authority whatever lives whatever
infrastructure they have for 20 years
that's what the Israelis called mowing
the loan continuously destroying
Palestinian infr infrastructure
continuously putting the Palestinians on
defense the price for the Palestinians
have been so heavy it's really
culminated in this latest war of eight
months because Israel has basically run
with total impunity one war after
another leading us to this war where the
Israeli said you know what if the world
doesn't care if the Arab world doesn't
give a damn and if the United States is
going to protect us no matter what we do
no matter what war crimes we carry no
matter what genocide we we we affect in
in in Gaza or in Palestine well we you
going to do it and and that's the result
of impunity Israel is taking its uh its
revenge it's its wrath on Gaza and the
result I mean you know I know we've been
covering it but why not just repeat
again and again tens of thousands of
Palestinian women and children and
adults have been killed more than
100,000 casualties the entire Gaza Strip
now is basically destroyed schools and
hospitals and universities and Clinics
and and bakeries and residential
buildings that's the result of this and
after all of that after all of that when
the Palestinians were dying for a
ceasefire for the past so many months
dying for a ceasefire literally and
figuratively now comes blink into the
region and lectures lectures the
Palestinians about a
ceasefire how surrealistic and absurd is
this picture of the Emissary of the
United States the Imperial power that
has been protecting financing and arming
Israel to carry its genocide in Gaz
is lecturing the Palestinians and and
the Arabs out of the Dead Sea in Jordan
about the importance of ceasefire when
the United States has been blocking the
ceasefire for months now when the
Russians and the Chinese and even the
French have been demanding a ceasefire
when the Arabs and the Palestinians have
been demanding a ceasefire and the
United States has been blocking a
ceasefire now they're going for a
partial ceasefire a pause for 6 weeks
and they're lecturing the the rest of
the region and certainly the
Palestinians about the importance of a
ceasefire I want to ask you about that
uh issue of impunity that you brought up
there we're reporting that an
independent un investigation is now
finding that Israel has committed crimes
against humanity and war crimes this is
the first time that there has been an
in-depth report into the war on Gaza it
is also accusing Palestinian arm groups
of war crimes particularly on October
the 7th with regard to the issue of
impunity are we now seeing do you think
the first stages that will eventually
lead to some sort of accountability for
what's been
happening well certainly uh uh the
building blocks of accountability have
been
um have been coming together right and
clearly the pressure has has really been
building up whether it's from the icj
the ICC the UN Human Rights Council the
human rights organization and so on so
forth so there's clearly a momentum
there and I think it's important to note
that legally speaking yes and and I'm no
legal scholar but I can certainly you
know with with the simplest of logic and
rational understand why the Human Rights
Council and other groups such as the ICC
would say both Hamas and Israel are
carrying war
crimes hamas's uh kidnapping of of
hostage of of civilians is not uh
illegal despite hamas's claim that it is
it is not it is not to the spirit or
letter of international humanitarian law
you cannot simply uh kidnap uh uh hold
hostages civilians uh and then basically
stuff them in in in in civilian
population of course the Palestinians
say under the circumstances of what we
gone through and so on so forth
occupation we are defending themselves
ourselves and we have a right to resist
all that is true but that does not
justify a war CRI now having said that
that both Israel and Hamas are probably
carrying uh or arguably carrying war
crimes this a
politically politically there's a big
difference between the two legally both
to the definition AR caric war crimes
politically Hamas Jihad and other
Islamic and other Palestinian groups are
trying to liberate themselves and their
land from decades long occupation and
dispossession Israel is scanning war
crimes in order to maintain its illegal
occupation and racist system of aparted
from The River To The
Sea the second difference politically
speaking is while Hamas is carries those
uh crimes war crimes they are I'm sorry
to use the Expression retail violence
retail Bloodshed against the Israelis
Israel's violence illegal violence
against the Palestinians is definitely
wholesale definitely genocidal
definitely on on a great scale of a war
crimes that ends up once again with a
destruction of an entire infrastructure
for an entire people where even the
international court of justice says
there's a plausible case for genocide
whereby Israel is destroying a people as
a whole or in part in Gaza certainly uh
starving them certainly creating famine
certainly cutting Aid certainly
destroying their water and and and other
civilian infrastructure certainly
destroying their schools and
universities and their homes their
bakeries their clinics their
kindergartens and so on and so forth
well we're waiting to be bringing
coverage of a press conference that's
going to be held by US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin who's in Qatar as
I mentioned he'll be joined by Prime
Minister and foreign minister of Qatar
Muhammad bin Abdul Rahman bin jasim
Alani and of course when that happens
Maran we're going to come back to you
for your views on that thank you very
much
indeed make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz